README.md, before:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JuliaPlots/Makie.jl/sd/abstract/docs/src/assets/logo.png)

# Makie

[![code](https://github.com/SimonDanisch/Makie.jl/blob/master/docs/header.png?raw=true)](https://github.com/SimonDanisch/Makie.jl/blob/master/test/makie_header.jl)


From the japanese word [Maki-e](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maki-e), which is a technique to sprinkle lacquer with gold and silver powder.
Data is basically the gold and silver of our age, so lets spread it out beautifully on the screen!

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/)

# Installation
Makie is still prerelease, so the current versions are a bit in turmoil.

```julia
Pkg.add("Makie") # will install the deprecated, first version of Makie - Look at #IJulia examples for the old style
# Get the bleeding edge version, which is used to generate the `Examples from the documenation` + `Complex examples` section 
Pkg.checkout("Makie")
Pkg.checkout("AbstractPlotting")
```

Make sure that the check out happens without error. E.e. if you have previously tinkered with GLVisualize, it might happen that you don't check out the `sd/makie` branch correctly.
## IJulia examples:

[![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/32204865-33482ddc-bdec-11e7-9693-b94d999187dc.png)](https://gist.github.com/SimonDanisch/8f5489cffaf6b89c9a3712ba3eb12a84)

## Complex examples
[![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/43387927-16ed8e16-93e8-11e8-950b-c54f9f37b895.gif)](https://gist.github.com/SimonDanisch/58cb1050581658859f7a5df51fa1e5a1#file-earth-jl)

## Examples from the documenation: 

[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-3d_contour_with_2d_contour_slices.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-volume.html#3D-Contour-with-2D-contour-slices-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-animated_scatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Animated-Scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-animated_surface_and_wireframe.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Animated-surface-and-wireframe-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-arrows_3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-arrows.html#Arrows-3D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-arrows_on_sphere.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Arrows-on-Sphere-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-axis___surface.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Axis-+-Surface-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-barplot_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-barplot.html#barplot-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-colored_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Colored-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-colored_triangle.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#colored-triangle-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-colormaps.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-image.html#colormaps-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-connected_sphere.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Connected-Sphere-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-contour_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-contour.html#contour-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-contour_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-contour.html#Contour-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-fem_mesh_3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#FEM-mesh-3D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-fem_polygon_2d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-poly.html#FEM-polygon-2D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-fluctuation_3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Fluctuation-3D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-heatmap_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-heatmap.html#Heatmap-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-heatmap_interpolation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-heatmap.html#heatmap-interpolation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-image_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-image.html#image-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-image_on_surface_sphere.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Image-on-Surface-Sphere-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-image_scatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#image-scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-interaction.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Interaction-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-interaction_with_mouse.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Interaction-with-Mouse-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-line_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-lines.html#Line-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-line_gif.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-lines.html#Line-GIF-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-load_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Load-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-marker_offset.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Marker-offset-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-marker_sizes.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Marker-sizes-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-marker_sizes___marker_colors.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Marker-sizes-+-Marker-colors-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-merged_color_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Merged-color-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-meshscatter_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Meshscatter-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-moire.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-linesegments.html#Moire-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-mouse_picking.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Mouse-Picking-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-normals_of_a_cat.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Normals-of-a-Cat-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-polygons.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-linesegments.html#Polygons-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-pong.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#pong-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-quiver_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-arrows.html#quiver-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-record_video.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Record-Video-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-scatter_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-scatter_colormap.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#scatter-colormap-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-simple_meshscatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Simple-meshscatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-sphere_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Sphere-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-subscenes.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Subscenes-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-surface_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Surface-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-surface_with_image.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Surface-with-image-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-surface___contour3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#surface-+-contour3d-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-test_heatmap___image_overlap.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-heatmap.html#Test-heatmap-+-image-overlap-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-textured_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Textured-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-text_annotation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-text.html#Text-Annotation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-text_rotation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-text.html#Text-rotation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-travelling_wave.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-lines.html#Travelling-wave-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-type_recipe_for_molecule_simulation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Type-recipe-for-molecule-simulation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-unicode_marker.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Unicode-Marker-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-viridis_meshscatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Viridis-meshscatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-viridis_scatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Viridis-scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-volume_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-volume.html#Volume-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-wireframe_of_a_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Wireframe-of-a-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-wireframe_of_a_surface.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Wireframe-of-a-Surface-1)




## Mouse interaction:

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/31519651-5992ca62-afa3-11e7-8b10-b66e6d6bee42.png" width="489">](https://vimeo.com/237204560 "Mouse Interaction")

## Animating a surface:

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/31519521-fd67907e-afa2-11e7-8c43-5f125780ae26.png" width="489">](https://vimeo.com/237284958 "Surface Plot")





# Precompilation

You can compile binary for Makie and add it to your system image for fast plotting times with no JIT overhead.
To do that, you need to check out the additional packages for precompilation.
Then you can build a system image like this:

```julia
# add PackageCompiler
Pkg.add("PackageCompiler")
using PackageCompiler
# This is not well tested, so please be careful - I don't take any responsibilities for a messed up Julia install.

# The safe option:
PackageCompiler.compile_package("Makie", force = false) # can take around ~20 minutes

# Replaces julias system image
# please be very carefull with the above option, since this can make your julia stop working.
# If Julia doesn't start for you anymore, consider doing:
# using PackageCompiler; PackageCompiler.revert() <- not well tested

PackageCompiler.compile_package("Makie", force = true)
```

Commit message:

update install instructions
Former-commit-id: 1d8f322c603225a3a845bd268991308eb51a88f4

README.md, after:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/JuliaPlots/Makie.jl/sd/abstract/docs/src/assets/logo.png)

# Makie

[![code](https://github.com/SimonDanisch/Makie.jl/blob/master/docs/header.png?raw=true)](https://github.com/SimonDanisch/Makie.jl/blob/master/test/makie_header.jl)


From the japanese word [Maki-e](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maki-e), which is a technique to sprinkle lacquer with gold and silver powder.
Data is basically the gold and silver of our age, so lets spread it out beautifully on the screen!

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/)

# Installation
Makie is still prerelease, so the current versions are a bit in turmoil.

## Julia 0.6

```julia
Pkg.add("Makie") # will install the deprecated, first version of Makie - Look at #IJulia examples for the old style
# Get the bleeding edge version, which is used to generate the `Examples from the documenation` + `Complex examples` section 
Pkg.checkout("Makie")
Pkg.checkout("AbstractPlotting")
```

## Julia 0.7

```Julia
add Makie#sd/07 AbstractPlotting#sd/07 GeometryTypes#sd/07 ImageMagick#sd/07 Reactive#sd/07
add ImageFiltering#teh/update0.7
test Makie
```

## Dependencies
You will need to have ffmpeg in the path to run the video recording examples.
On linux you also need to add the following to get GLFW to build (if you don't have those already):
```
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg cmake xorg-dev
```


## IJulia examples:

[![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/32204865-33482ddc-bdec-11e7-9693-b94d999187dc.png)](https://gist.github.com/SimonDanisch/8f5489cffaf6b89c9a3712ba3eb12a84)

## Complex examples
[![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/43387927-16ed8e16-93e8-11e8-950b-c54f9f37b895.gif)](https://gist.github.com/SimonDanisch/58cb1050581658859f7a5df51fa1e5a1#file-earth-jl)

## Examples from the documenation: 

[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-3d_contour_with_2d_contour_slices.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-volume.html#3D-Contour-with-2D-contour-slices-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-animated_scatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Animated-Scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-animated_surface_and_wireframe.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Animated-surface-and-wireframe-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-arrows_3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-arrows.html#Arrows-3D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-arrows_on_sphere.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Arrows-on-Sphere-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-axis___surface.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Axis-+-Surface-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-barplot_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-barplot.html#barplot-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-colored_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Colored-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-colored_triangle.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#colored-triangle-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-colormaps.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-image.html#colormaps-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-connected_sphere.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Connected-Sphere-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-contour_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-contour.html#contour-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-contour_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-contour.html#Contour-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-fem_mesh_3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#FEM-mesh-3D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-fem_polygon_2d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-poly.html#FEM-polygon-2D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-fluctuation_3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Fluctuation-3D-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-heatmap_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-heatmap.html#Heatmap-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-heatmap_interpolation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-heatmap.html#heatmap-interpolation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-image_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-image.html#image-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-image_on_surface_sphere.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Image-on-Surface-Sphere-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-image_scatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#image-scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-interaction.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Interaction-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-interaction_with_mouse.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Interaction-with-Mouse-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-line_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-lines.html#Line-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-line_gif.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-lines.html#Line-GIF-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-load_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Load-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-marker_offset.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Marker-offset-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-marker_sizes.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Marker-sizes-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-marker_sizes___marker_colors.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Marker-sizes-+-Marker-colors-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-merged_color_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Merged-color-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-meshscatter_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Meshscatter-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-moire.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-linesegments.html#Moire-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-mouse_picking.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Mouse-Picking-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-normals_of_a_cat.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Normals-of-a-Cat-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-polygons.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-linesegments.html#Polygons-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-pong.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#pong-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-quiver_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-arrows.html#quiver-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-record_video.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Record-Video-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-scatter_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-scatter_colormap.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#scatter-colormap-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-simple_meshscatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Simple-meshscatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-sphere_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Sphere-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-subscenes.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Subscenes-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-surface_1.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Surface-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-surface_with_image.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Surface-with-image-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-surface___contour3d.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#surface-+-contour3d-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-test_heatmap___image_overlap.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-heatmap.html#Test-heatmap-+-image-overlap-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-textured_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Textured-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-text_annotation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-text.html#Text-Annotation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-text_rotation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-text.html#Text-rotation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-travelling_wave.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-lines.html#Travelling-wave-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-type_recipe_for_molecule_simulation.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-meshscatter.html#Type-recipe-for-molecule-simulation-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-unicode_marker.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Unicode-Marker-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-viridis_meshscatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Viridis-meshscatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-viridis_scatter.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-scatter.html#Viridis-scatter-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-volume_function.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-volume.html#Volume-Function-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-wireframe_of_a_mesh.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-mesh.html#Wireframe-of-a-Mesh-1)
[![](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/media/thumb-wireframe_of_a_surface.jpg)](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/examples-surface.html#Wireframe-of-a-Surface-1)




## Mouse interaction:

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/31519651-5992ca62-afa3-11e7-8b10-b66e6d6bee42.png" width="489">](https://vimeo.com/237204560 "Mouse Interaction")

## Animating a surface:

[<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1010467/31519521-fd67907e-afa2-11e7-8c43-5f125780ae26.png" width="489">](https://vimeo.com/237284958 "Surface Plot")





# Precompilation

You can compile binary for Makie and add it to your system image for fast plotting times with no JIT overhead.
To do that, you need to check out the additional packages for precompilation.
Then you can build a system image like this:

```julia
# add PackageCompiler
Pkg.add("PackageCompiler")
using PackageCompiler
# This is not well tested, so please be careful - I don't take any responsibilities for a messed up Julia install.

# The safe option:
PackageCompiler.compile_package("Makie", force = false) # can take around ~20 minutes

# Replaces julias system image
# please be very carefull with the above option, since this can make your julia stop working.
# If Julia doesn't start for you anymore, consider doing:
# using PackageCompiler; PackageCompiler.revert() <- not well tested

PackageCompiler.compile_package("Makie", force = true)
```
