# band

```
f, ax, pl = band(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = band(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = band!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Band(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Examples

```@figure
f = Figure()
Axis(f[1, 1])

xs = 1:0.2:10
ys_low = -0.2 .* sin.(xs) .- 0.25
ys_high = 0.2 .* sin.(xs) .+ 0.25

band!(xs, ys_low, ys_high)
band!(xs, ys_low .- 1, ys_high .-1, color = :red)

f
```

```@figure
using Statistics

f = Figure()
Axis(f[1, 1])

n, m = 100, 101
t = range(0, 1, length=m)
X = cumsum(randn(n, m), dims = 2)
X = X .- X[:, 1]
μ = vec(mean(X, dims=1)) # mean
lines!(t, μ)              # plot mean line
σ = vec(std(X, dims=1))  # stddev
band!(t, μ + σ, μ - σ)   # plot stddev band
f
```

```@figure backend=GLMakie
lower = fill(Point3f(0,0,0), 100)
upper = [Point3f(sin(x), cos(x), 1.0) for x in range(0,2pi, length=100)]
col = repeat([1:50;50:-1:1],outer=2)
band(lower, upper, color=col, axis=(type=Axis3,))
```

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/band) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `alpha`

**Default:** `1.0`

The alpha value of the colormap or color attribute. Multiple alphas like in `plot(alpha=0.2, color=(:red, 0.5)`, will get multiplied.

### `direction`

**Default:** `:x`

The direction of the band. If set to `:y`, x and y coordinates will be flipped, resulting in a vertical band. This setting applies only to 2D bands.

**Example:**

```@figure
fig = Figure()
location = range(0, 4pi, length = 200)
lower =   cos.(location) .- location
upper = .-cos.(location) .+ location .+ 5
band(fig[1, 1], location, lower, upper,
    axis = (; title = "direction = :x"))
band(fig[1, 2], location, lower, upper, direction = :y,
    axis = (; title = "direction = :y"))
fig

```

### `specular`

**Default:** `0.2`

Sets how strongly the object reflects light in the red, green and blue channels.

### `colormap`

**Default:** `@inherit colormap :viridis`

Sets the colormap that is sampled for numeric `color`s. `PlotUtils.cgrad(...)`, `Makie.Reverse(any_colormap)` can be used as well, or any symbol from ColorBrewer or PlotUtils. To see all available color gradients, you can call `Makie.available_gradients()`.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `colorscale`

**Default:** `identity`

The color transform function. Can be any function, but only works well together with `Colorbar` for `identity`, `log`, `log2`, `log10`, `sqrt`, `logit`, `Makie.pseudolog10`, `Makie.Symlog10`, `Makie.AsinhScale`, `Makie.SinhScale`, `Makie.LogScale`, `Makie.LuptonAsinhScale`, and `Makie.PowerScale`.

### `matcap`

**Default:** `nothing`

Applies a "material capture" texture to the generated mesh. A matcap encodes lighting and color data of a material on a circular texture which is sampled based on normal vectors.

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `highclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value above the colorrange.

### `backlight`

**Default:** `0.0`

Sets a weight for secondary light calculation with inverted normals.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `uv_transform`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a transform for uv coordinates, which controls how a texture is mapped to a mesh. The attribute can be `I`, `scale::VecTypes{2}`, `(translation::VecTypes{2}, scale::VecTypes{2})`, any of `:rotr90`, `:rotl90`, `:rot180`, `:swap_xy`/`:transpose`, `:flip_x`, `:flip_y`, `:flip_xy`, or most generally a `Makie.Mat{2, 3, Float32}` or `Makie.Mat3f` as returned by `Makie.uv_transform()`. They can also be changed by passing a tuple `(op3, op2, op1)`.

### `nan_color`

**Default:** `:transparent`

The color for NaN values.

### `shininess`

**Default:** `32.0`

Sets how sharp the reflection is.

### `interpolate`

**Default:** `true`

sets whether colors should be interpolated

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `cycle`

**Default:** `[:color => :patchcolor]`

Sets which attributes to cycle when creating multiple plots. The values to cycle through are defined by the parent Theme. Multiple cycled attributes can be set by passing a vector. Elements can

  * directly refer to a cycled attribute, e.g. `:color`
  * map a cycled attribute to a palette attribute, e.g. `:linecolor => :color`
  * map multiple cycled attributes to a palette attribute, e.g. `[:linecolor, :markercolor] => :color`

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `colorrange`

**Default:** `automatic`

The values representing the start and end points of `colormap`.

### `color`

**Default:** `@inherit patchcolor`

Sets the color of the mesh. Can be a `Vector{<:Colorant}` for per vertex colors or a single `Colorant`. A `Matrix{<:Colorant}` can be used to color the mesh with a texture, which requires the mesh to contain texture coordinates. A `<: AbstractPattern` can be used to apply a repeated, pixel sampled pattern to the mesh, e.g. for hatching.

### `material`

**Default:** `nothing`

RPRMakie only attribute to set complex RadeonProRender materials.         *Warning*, how to set an RPR material may change and other backends will ignore this attribute

### `shading`

**Default:** `NoShading`

Controls if the plot object is shaded by the parent scenes lights or not. The lighting algorithm used is controlled by the scenes `shading` attribute.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `diffuse`

**Default:** `1.0`

Sets how strongly the red, green and blue channel react to diffuse (scattered) light.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.

### `lowclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value below the colorrange.
