# hist

```
f, ax, pl = hist(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = hist(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = hist!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Hist(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Examples

```@figure backend=GLMakie
data = randn(1000)

f = Figure()
hist(f[1, 1], data, bins = 10)
hist(f[1, 2], data, bins = 20, color = :red, strokewidth = 1, strokecolor = :black)
hist(f[2, 1], data, bins = [-5, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 5], color = :gray)
hist(f[2, 2], data, normalization = :pdf)
f
```

#### Histogram with labels

You can use all the same arguments as [`barplot`](@ref):

```@figure
data = randn(1000)

hist(data, normalization = :pdf, bar_labels = :values,
     label_formatter=x-> round(x, digits=2), label_size = 15,
     strokewidth = 0.5, strokecolor = (:black, 0.5), color = :values)
```

#### Moving histograms

With `scale_to`, and `offset`, one can put multiple histograms into the same plot. Note, that offset automatically sets fillto, to move the whole barplot. Also, one can use a negative `scale_to` amount to flip the histogram, or `scale_to=:flip` to flip the direction of the bars without changing their height.

```@figure
fig = Figure()
ax = Axis(fig[1, 1])
for i in 1:5
     hist!(ax, randn(1000), scale_to=-0.6, offset=i, direction=:x)
end
fig
```

#### Using statistical weights

```@figure
using Distributions


N = 100_000
x = rand(Uniform(-5, 5), N)

w = pdf.(Normal(), x)

fig = Figure()
hist(fig[1,1], x)
hist(fig[1,2], x, weights = w)

fig
```

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/hist) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `alpha`

**Default:** `1.0`

The alpha value of the colormap or color attribute. Multiple alphas like in `plot(alpha=0.2, color=(:red, 0.5)`, will get multiplied.

### `strokecolor`

**Default:** `@inherit patchstrokecolor`

Sets the outline color of bars.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `bar_labels`

**Default:** `nothing`

Labels added at the end of each bar.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `strokewidth`

**Default:** `@inherit patchstrokewidth`

Sets the outline linewidth of bars.

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `gap`

**Default:** `0`

Sets the gap between bars relative to their width. The new width is `w * (1 - gap)`.

### `fillto`

**Default:** `automatic`

Controls the baseline of the bars. This is zero in the default `automatic` case unless the barplot is in a log-scaled `Axis`. With a log scale, the automatic default is half the minimum value because zero is an invalid value for a log scale.

### `label_size`

**Default:** `@inherit fontsize`

The font size of the bar labels.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `colorscale`

**Default:** `identity`

The color transform function. Can be any function, but only works well together with `Colorbar` for `identity`, `log`, `log2`, `log10`, `sqrt`, `logit`, `Makie.pseudolog10`, `Makie.Symlog10`, `Makie.AsinhScale`, `Makie.SinhScale`, `Makie.LogScale`, `Makie.LuptonAsinhScale`, and `Makie.PowerScale`.

### `over_bar_color`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the color of labels that are drawn inside of/over bars. Defaults to `label_color`

### `label_rotation`

**Default:** `0π`

Sets the text rotation of labels in radians.

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `over_background_color`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the color of labels that are drawn outside of bars. Defaults to `label_color`

### `bins`

**Default:** `15`

Sets the number of bins if set to an integer or the edges of bins if set to an sorted collection of real numbers.

### `color`

**Default:** `@inherit patchcolor`

Sets the color of bars.

### `flip_labels_at`

**Default:** `Inf`

Sets a `height` value beyond which labels are drawn inside the bar instead of outside.

### `weights`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets optional statistical weights.

### `lowclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value below the colorrange.

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `colormap`

**Default:** `@inherit colormap :viridis`

Sets the colormap that is sampled for numeric `color`s. `PlotUtils.cgrad(...)`, `Makie.Reverse(any_colormap)` can be used as well, or any symbol from ColorBrewer or PlotUtils. To see all available color gradients, you can call `Makie.available_gradients()`.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `label_font`

**Default:** `@inherit font`

The font of the bar labels.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `scale_to`

**Default:** `nothing`

Scales the histogram by a common factor such that the largest bin reaches the given value. This can also be set to `:flip` to flip the direction of histogram bars without scaling them.

### `label_align`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the text alignment of labels.

### `cycle`

**Default:** `[:color => :patchcolor]`

Sets which attributes to cycle when creating multiple plots. The values to cycle through are defined by the parent Theme. Multiple cycled attributes can be set by passing a vector. Elements can

  * directly refer to a cycled attribute, e.g. `:color`
  * map a cycled attribute to a palette attribute, e.g. `:linecolor => :color`
  * map multiple cycled attributes to a palette attribute, e.g. `[:linecolor, :markercolor] => :color`

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `normalization`

**Default:** `:none`

Sets the normalization applied to the histogram. Possible values are:

  * `:pdf`: Normalize by sum of weights and bin sizes. Resulting histogram  has norm 1 and represents a probability density function.
  * `:density`: Normalize by bin sizes only. Resulting histogram represents  count density of input and does not have norm 1. Will not modify the  histogram if it already represents a density (`h.isdensity == 1`).
  * `:probability`: Normalize by sum of weights only. Resulting histogram  represents the fraction of probability mass for each bin and does not have  norm 1.
  * `:none`: Do not normalize.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `direction`

**Default:** `:y`

Controls the direction of the bars. can be `:y` (`height` is vertical) or `:x` (`height` is horizontal).

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `label_offset`

**Default:** `5`

The distance of the labels from the bar ends in screen units. Does not apply when `label_position = :center`.

### `highclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value above the colorrange.

### `label_position`

**Default:** `:end`

The position of each bar's label relative to the bar. Possible values are `:end` or `:center`.

### `label_color`

**Default:** `@inherit textcolor`

Sets the color of labels.

### `nan_color`

**Default:** `:transparent`

The color for NaN values.

### `label_formatter`

**Default:** `bar_label_formatter`

Formatting function which is applied to bar labels before they are passed on `text()`

### `colorrange`

**Default:** `automatic`

The values representing the start and end points of `colormap`.

### `offset`

**Default:** `0.0`

Offsets all bars by the given real value. Can also be set per-bar.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.
