# meshscatter

```
f, ax, pl = meshscatter(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = meshscatter(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = meshscatter!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Meshscatter(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Arguments

**Target signature:** `positions::AbstractVector{<:Union{Point2, Point3}}`

  * `positions`: A `VecTypes` (`Point`, `Vec` or `Tuple`) or `AbstractVector{<:VecTypes}` corresponding to `(x, y)` or `(x, y, z)` positions.
  * `xs, ys[, zs]`: Positions given per dimension. Can be `Real` to define a single position, or an `AbstractVector{<:Real}` or `ClosedInterval{<:Real}` to define multiple. Using `ClosedInterval` requires at least one dimension to be given as an array. `zs` can also be given as a `AbstractMatrix` which will cause `xs` and `ys` to be interpreted per matrix axis.
  * `ys`: Defaults `xs` positions to `eachindex(ys)`.

For detailed conversion information, see `Makie.conversion_docs(Meshscatter)`.

## Examples

```@figure backend=GLMakie
xs = cos.(1:0.5:20)
ys = sin.(1:0.5:20)
zs = LinRange(0, 3, length(xs))

meshscatter(xs, ys, zs, markersize = 0.1, color = zs)
```

```@figure backend=GLMakie
using FileIO, GeometryBasics
cow = Makie.loadasset("cow.png")

N = 8; M = 10
f = Figure(size = (500, 400))
a, p = meshscatter(
    f[1, 1],
    [Point2f(x, y) for x in 1:M for y in 1:N],
    color = cow,
    uv_transform = [
        # 1. undo y flip of uvs relative to pos
        # 2. grab relevant section from image
        # 3. rotate to match view
        (:rotl90, (Vec2f(x, y), Vec2f(1/M, 1/N)), :flip_y)
        for x in range(0, 1, length = M+1)[1:M]
        for y in range(0, 1, length = N+1)[1:N]
    ],
    markersize = Vec3f(0.9, 0.9, 1),
    marker = uv_normal_mesh(Rect2f(-0.5, -0.5, 1, 1))
)
hidedecorations!(a)
xlims!(a, 0.4, M+0.6)
ylims!(a, 0.4, N+0.6)
f
```

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/meshscatter) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `alpha`

**Default:** `1.0`

The alpha value of the colormap or color attribute. Multiple alphas like in `plot(alpha=0.2, color=(:red, 0.5)`, will get multiplied.

### `lowclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value below the colorrange.

### `specular`

**Default:** `0.2`

Sets how strongly the object reflects light in the red, green and blue channels.

### `colormap`

**Default:** `@inherit colormap :viridis`

Sets the colormap that is sampled for numeric `color`s. `PlotUtils.cgrad(...)`, `Makie.Reverse(any_colormap)` can be used as well, or any symbol from ColorBrewer or PlotUtils. To see all available color gradients, you can call `Makie.available_gradients()`.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `colorscale`

**Default:** `identity`

The color transform function. Can be any function, but only works well together with `Colorbar` for `identity`, `log`, `log2`, `log10`, `sqrt`, `logit`, `Makie.pseudolog10`, `Makie.Symlog10`, `Makie.AsinhScale`, `Makie.SinhScale`, `Makie.LogScale`, `Makie.LuptonAsinhScale`, and `Makie.PowerScale`.

### `matcap`

**Default:** `nothing`

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `markersize`

**Default:** `0.1`

Sets the scale of the mesh. This can be given as a `Vector` to apply to each scattered mesh individually.

### `highclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value above the colorrange.

### `backlight`

**Default:** `0.0`

Sets a weight for secondary light calculation with inverted normals.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `uv_transform`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a transform for uv coordinates, which controls how a texture is mapped to the scattered mesh. Note that the mesh needs to include uv coordinates for this, which is not the case by default for geometry primitives. You can use `GeometryBasics.uv_normal_mesh(prim)` with, for example `prim = Rect2f(0, 0, 1, 1)`. The attribute can be `I`, `scale::VecTypes{2}`, `(translation::VecTypes{2}, scale::VecTypes{2})`, any of `:rotr90`, `:rotl90`, `:rot180`, `:swap_xy`/`:transpose`, `:flip_x`, `:flip_y`, `:flip_xy`, or most generally a `Makie.Mat{2, 3, Float32}` or `Makie.Mat3f` as returned by `Makie.uv_transform()`. It can also be set per scattered mesh by passing a `Vector` of any of the above and operations can be changed by passing a tuple `(op3, op2, op1)`.

### `nan_color`

**Default:** `:transparent`

The color for NaN values.

### `shininess`

**Default:** `32.0`

Sets how sharp the reflection is.

### `rotation`

**Default:** `0.0`

Sets the rotation of the mesh. A numeric rotation is around the z-axis, a `Vec3f` causes the mesh to rotate such that the the z-axis is now that vector, and a quaternion describes a general rotation. This can be given as a Vector to apply to each scattered mesh individually.

### `interpolate`

**Default:** `true`

When using textures as colors, controls whether the texture is sampled with linear interpolation (true) or nearest interpolation (false). (This requires the scattered mesh to include uv coordinates.)

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `cycle`

**Default:** `[:color]`

Sets which attributes to cycle when creating multiple plots. The values to cycle through are defined by the parent Theme. Multiple cycled attributes can be set by passing a vector. Elements can

  * directly refer to a cycled attribute, e.g. `:color`
  * map a cycled attribute to a palette attribute, e.g. `:linecolor => :color`
  * map multiple cycled attributes to a palette attribute, e.g. `[:linecolor, :markercolor] => :color`

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `marker`

**Default:** `:Sphere`

Sets the scattered mesh.

### `color`

**Default:** `@inherit markercolor`

Sets the color of the marker.

### `colorrange`

**Default:** `automatic`

The values representing the start and end points of `colormap`.

### `material`

**Default:** `nothing`

RPRMakie only attribute to set complex RadeonProRender materials.         *Warning*, how to set an RPR material may change and other backends will ignore this attribute

### `shading`

**Default:** `true`

Controls if the plot object is shaded by the parent scenes lights or not. The lighting algorithm used is controlled by the scenes `shading` attribute.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `diffuse`

**Default:** `1.0`

Sets how strongly the red, green and blue channel react to diffuse (scattered) light.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.

### `transform_marker`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the (complete) model matrix applies to the scattered mesh, rather than just the positions. (If this is false, `scale!`, `rotate!` and `translate!()` will not affect the scattered mesh.)
