# pie

```
f, ax, pl = pie(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = pie(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = pie!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Pie(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Examples

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/pie) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `strokecolor`

**Default:** `:black`

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `normalize`

**Default:** `true`

If `true`, the sum of all values is normalized to 2π (a full circle).

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `offset_radius`

**Default:** `0`

The offset of each pie segment from the center along the radius

### `strokewidth`

**Default:** `1`

### `vertex_per_deg`

**Default:** `1`

Controls how many polygon vertices are used for one degree of rotation.

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `color`

**Default:** `:gray`

### `offset`

**Default:** `0`

The angular offset of the first pie segment from the (1, 0) vector in radians.

### `inner_radius`

**Default:** `0`

The inner radius of the pie segments. If this is larger than zero, the pie pieces become ring sections.

### `radius`

**Default:** `1`

The outer radius of the pie segments.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.
