# stephist

```
f, ax, pl = stephist(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = stephist(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = stephist!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Stephist(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Examples

```@figure backend=GLMakie
data = randn(1000)

f = Figure()
stephist(f[1, 1], data, bins = 10)
stephist(f[1, 2], data, bins = 20, color = :red, linewidth = 3)
stephist(f[2, 1], data, bins = [-5, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 5], color = :gray)
stephist(f[2, 2], data, normalization = :pdf)
f
```

For more examples, see `hist`.

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/stephist) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `alpha`

**Default:** `1.0`

The alpha value of the colormap or color attribute. Multiple alphas like in `plot(alpha=0.2, color=(:red, 0.5)`, will get multiplied.

### `colormap`

**Default:** `@inherit colormap :viridis`

Sets the colormap that is sampled for numeric `color`s. `PlotUtils.cgrad(...)`, `Makie.Reverse(any_colormap)` can be used as well, or any symbol from ColorBrewer or PlotUtils. To see all available color gradients, you can call `Makie.available_gradients()`.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `colorscale`

**Default:** `identity`

The color transform function. Can be any function, but only works well together with `Colorbar` for `identity`, `log`, `log2`, `log10`, `sqrt`, `logit`, `Makie.pseudolog10`, `Makie.Symlog10`, `Makie.AsinhScale`, `Makie.SinhScale`, `Makie.LogScale`, `Makie.LuptonAsinhScale`, and `Makie.PowerScale`.

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `highclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value above the colorrange.

### `linestyle`

**Default:** `nothing`

Sets the dash pattern of the line. Options are `:solid` (equivalent to `nothing`), `:dot`, `:dash`, `:dashdot` and `:dashdotdot`. These can also be given in a tuple with a gap style modifier, either `:normal`, `:dense` or `:loose`. For example, `(:dot, :loose)` or `(:dashdot, :dense)`.

For custom patterns have a look at [`Makie.Linestyle`](@ref).

### `scale_to`

**Default:** `nothing`

Scales the histogram by a common factor such that the largest bin reaches the given value.

### `joinstyle`

**Default:** `@inherit joinstyle`

Controls the rendering at corners. Options are `:miter` for sharp corners, `:bevel` for "cut off" corners, and `:round` for rounded corners. If the corner angle is below `miter_limit`, `:miter` is equivalent to `:bevel` to avoid long spikes.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `nan_color`

**Default:** `:transparent`

The color for NaN values.

### `linecap`

**Default:** `@inherit linecap`

Sets the type of line cap used. Options are `:butt` (flat without extrusion), `:square` (flat with half a linewidth extrusion) or `:round`.

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `cycle`

**Default:** `[:color]`

Sets which attributes to cycle when creating multiple plots. The values to cycle through are defined by the parent Theme. Multiple cycled attributes can be set by passing a vector. Elements can

  * directly refer to a cycled attribute, e.g. `:color`
  * map a cycled attribute to a palette attribute, e.g. `:linecolor => :color`
  * map multiple cycled attributes to a palette attribute, e.g. `[:linecolor, :markercolor] => :color`

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `miter_limit`

**Default:** `@inherit miter_limit`

Sets the minimum inner join angle below which miter joins truncate. See also `Makie.miter_distance_to_angle`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `color`

**Default:** `@inherit linecolor`

The color of the line.

### `colorrange`

**Default:** `automatic`

The values representing the start and end points of `colormap`.

### `bins`

**Default:** `15`

Sets the number of bins if set to an integer or the edges of bins if set to an sorted collection of real numbers.

### `step`

**Default:** `:pre`

The `step` parameter can take the following values:

  * `:pre`: horizontal part of step extends to the left of each value in `xs`.
  * `:post`: horizontal part of step extends to the right of each value in `xs`.
  * `:center`: horizontal part of step extends halfway between the two adjacent values of `xs`.

### `weights`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets optional statistical weights.

### `normalization`

**Default:** `:none`

Sets the normalization applied to the histogram. Possible values are:

  * `:pdf`: Normalize by sum of weights and bin sizes. Resulting histogram has norm 1 and represents a probability density function.
  * `:density`: Normalize by bin sizes only. Resulting histogram represents count density of input and does not have norm 1. Will not modify the histogram if it already represents a density (`h.isdensity == 1`).
  * `:probability`: Normalize by sum of weights only. Resulting histogram represents the fraction of probability mass for each bin and does not have norm 1.
  * `:none`: Do not normalize.

### `linewidth`

**Default:** `@inherit linewidth`

Sets the width of the line in screen units

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.

### `lowclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value below the colorrange.
