# streamplot

```
f, ax, pl = streamplot(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = streamplot(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = streamplot!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Streamplot(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Examples

```@figure
struct FitzhughNagumo{T}
    ϵ::T
    s::T
    γ::T
    β::T
end

P = FitzhughNagumo(0.1, 0.0, 1.5, 0.8)

f(x, P::FitzhughNagumo) = Point2f(
    (x[1]-x[2]-x[1]^3+P.s)/P.ϵ,
    P.γ*x[1]-x[2] + P.β
)

f(x) = f(x, P)

fig, ax, pl = streamplot(f, -1.5..1.5, -1.5..1.5, colormap = :magma)
# you can also pass a function to `color`, to either return a number or color value
streamplot(fig[1,2], f, -1.5 .. 1.5, -1.5 .. 1.5, color=(p)-> RGBAf(p..., 0.0, 1))
fig
```

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/streamplot) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `density`

**Default:** `1.0`

Sets the number of cells which need to be visited by streamlines. This must be between 0 and 1.

### `alpha`

**Default:** `1.0`

The alpha value of the colormap or color attribute. Multiple alphas like in `plot(alpha=0.2, color=(:red, 0.5)`, will get multiplied.

### `colormap`

**Default:** `@inherit colormap :viridis`

Sets the colormap that is sampled for numeric `color`s. `PlotUtils.cgrad(...)`, `Makie.Reverse(any_colormap)` can be used as well, or any symbol from ColorBrewer or PlotUtils. To see all available color gradients, you can call `Makie.available_gradients()`.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `colorscale`

**Default:** `identity`

The color transform function. Can be any function, but only works well together with `Colorbar` for `identity`, `log`, `log2`, `log10`, `sqrt`, `logit`, `Makie.pseudolog10`, `Makie.Symlog10`, `Makie.AsinhScale`, `Makie.SinhScale`, `Makie.LogScale`, `Makie.LuptonAsinhScale`, and `Makie.PowerScale`.

### `arrow_size`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the size of arrow markers. The default is scaled to the bounding box and gridsize of the plot

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `highclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value above the colorrange.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `linestyle`

**Default:** `nothing`

Sets the dash pattern for lines. See `?lines`.

### `joinstyle`

**Default:** `@inherit joinstyle`

Controls the rendering at line corners. Options are `:miter` for sharp corners, `:bevel` for cut-off corners, and `:round` for rounded corners. If the corner angle is below `miter_limit`, `:miter` is equivalent to `:bevel` to avoid long spikes.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `nan_color`

**Default:** `:transparent`

The color for NaN values.

### `linecap`

**Default:** `@inherit linecap`

Sets the type of line cap used for streamlines. Options are `:butt` (flat without extrusion), `:square` (flat with half a linewidth extrusion) or `:round`.

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `maxsteps`

**Default:** `500`

Controls the maximum number of points per streamline.

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `colorrange`

**Default:** `automatic`

The values representing the start and end points of `colormap`.

### `miter_limit`

**Default:** `@inherit miter_limit`

" Sets the minimum inner line join angle below which miter joins truncate. See also `Makie.miter_distance_to_angle`.

### `stepsize`

**Default:** `0.01`

Controls the discretization of streamlines. The smaller `stepsize`, the closer line points are together. The stepsize acts on the normalized output of `f` without taking limits into account.

### `color`

**Default:** `norm`

One can choose the color of the lines by passing a function `color_func(dx::Point)` to the `color` attribute. This can be set to any function or composition of functions. The `dx` which is passed to `color_func` is the output of `f` at the point being colored.

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `quality`

**Default:** `16`

Sets the quality of the cone mesh generated for 3D arrow markers.

### `arrow_head`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the marker for arrows which show the direction of the streamline. The default marker is either a (scatter) triangle or cone mesh, depending on dimensionality.

### `gridsize`

**Default:** `(32, 32, 32)`

Controls the discretization of the bounding box. With `density = 1` each square/cube will be visited by at least one streamline.

### `linewidth`

**Default:** `@inherit linewidth`

Sets the linewidth of streamlines.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `lowclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value below the colorrange.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.
