# tooltip

```
f, ax, pl = tooltip(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = tooltip(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = tooltip!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Tooltip(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Examples

### Basic tooltip

```@figure
fig, ax, p = scatter(Point2f(0), marker = 'x', markersize = 20)
tooltip!(Point2f(0), "This is a tooltip pointing at x")
fig
```

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/tooltip) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.

### `strokecolor`

**Default:** `:white`

Sets the text outline color.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `textpadding`

**Default:** `(4, 4, 4, 4)`

Sets the padding around text in the tooltip. This is given as `(left, right, bottom, top)` offsets.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `text`

**Default:** `""`

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `justification`

**Default:** `:left`

Sets whether text is aligned to the `:left`, `:center` or `:right` within its bounding box.

### `font`

**Default:** `@inherit font`

Sets the font.

### `align`

**Default:** `0.5`

Sets the alignment of the tooltip relative `position`. With `align = 0.5` the tooltip is centered above/below/left/right the `position`.

### `zautolimits`

**Default:** `false`

Controls whether the plot is included when calculating z limits.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `strokewidth`

**Default:** `0`

Gives text an outline if set to a positive value.

### `outline_linewidth`

**Default:** `2.0`

Sets the linewidth of the tooltip outline.

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `outline_linestyle`

**Default:** `nothing`

Sets the linestyle of the tooltip outline.

### `textcolor`

**Default:** `@inherit textcolor`

Sets the text color.

### `xautolimits`

**Default:** `false`

Controls whether the plot is included when calculating x limits.

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `offset`

**Default:** `10`

Sets the offset between the given `position` and the tip of the triangle pointing at that position.

### `backgroundcolor`

**Default:** `:white`

Sets the background color of the tooltip.

### `placement`

**Default:** `:above`

Sets where the tooltip should be placed relative to `position`. Can be `:above`, `:below`, `:left`, `:right`.

### `yautolimits`

**Default:** `false`

Controls whether the plot is included when calculating y limits.

### `fontsize`

**Default:** `16`

Sets the text size in screen units.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `false`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `triangle_size`

**Default:** `10`

Sets the size of the triangle pointing at `position`.

### `outline_color`

**Default:** `:black`

Sets the color of the tooltip outline.
