# waterfall

```
f, ax, pl = waterfall(args...; kw...) # return a new figure, axis, and plot
   ax, pl = waterfall(f[row, col], args...; kw...) # creates an axis in a subfigure grid position
       pl = waterfall!(ax::Union{Scene, AbstractAxis}, args...; kw...) # Creates a plot in the given axis or scene.
SpecApi.Waterfall(args...; kw...) # Creates a SpecApi plot, which can be used in `S.Axis(plots=[plot])`.
```

## Arguments

  * `positions`: A `VecTypes` (`Point`, `Vec` or `Tuple`) or `AbstractVector{<:VecTypes}` corresponding to `(x, y)` positions.
  * `xs, ys`: Positions given per dimension. Can be `Real` to define a single position, or an `AbstractVector{<:Real}` or `ClosedInterval{<:Real}` to define multiple. Using `ClosedInterval` requires at least one dimension to be given as an array. If omitted, `xs` defaults to `eachindex(ys)`.

For detailed conversion information, see `Makie.conversion_docs(Waterfall)`.

## Examples

```@figure
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]

waterfall(y)
```

The direction of the bars might be easier to parse with some visual support.

```@figure
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]

waterfall(y, show_direction=true)
```

You can customize the markers that indicate the bar directions.

```@figure
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]

waterfall(y, show_direction=true, marker_pos=:cross, marker_neg=:hline, direction_color=:gold)
```

If the `dodge` attribute is provided, bars are stacked by `dodge`.

```@figure
colors = Makie.wong_colors()
x = repeat(1:2, inner=5)
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]
group = repeat(1:5, outer=2)

waterfall(x, y, dodge=group, color=colors[group])
```

It can be easier to compare final results of different groups if they are shown in the background.

```@figure
colors = Makie.wong_colors()
x = repeat(1:2, inner=5)
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]
group = repeat(1:5, outer=2)

waterfall(x, y, dodge=group, color=colors[group], show_direction=true, show_final=true)
```

The color of the final bars in the background can be modified.

```@figure
colors = Makie.wong_colors()
x = repeat(1:2, inner=5)
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]
group = repeat(1:5, outer=2)

waterfall(x, y, dodge=group, color=colors[group], show_final=true, final_color=(colors[6], 1//3))
```

You can also specify to stack grouped waterfall plots by `x`.

```@figure
colors = Makie.wong_colors()
x = repeat(1:5, outer=2)
y = [6, 4, 2, -8, 3, 5, 1, -2, -3, 7]
group = repeat(1:2, inner=5)

waterfall(x, y, dodge=group, color=colors[group], show_direction=true, stack=:x)
```

See the [online documentation](https://docs.makie.org/stable/reference/plots/waterfall) for rendered examples.

## Attributes

### `alpha`

**Default:** `1.0`

The alpha value of the colormap or color attribute. Multiple alphas like in `plot(alpha=0.2, color=(:red, 0.5)`, will get multiplied.

### `strokecolor`

**Default:** `@inherit patchstrokecolor`

Sets the outline color of bars.

### `clip_planes`

**Default:** `@inherit clip_planes automatic`

Clip planes offer a way to do clipping in 3D space. You can set a Vector of up to 8 `Plane3f` planes here, behind which plots will be clipped (i.e. become invisible). By default clip planes are inherited from the parent plot or scene. You can remove parent `clip_planes` by passing `Plane3f[]`.

### `bar_labels`

**Default:** `nothing`

Labels added at the end of each bar.

### `final_color`

**Default:** `plot_color(:grey90, 0.5)`

Color of the final bar.

### `final_dodge_gap`

**Default:** `0`

Sets the dodge_gap of final bars.

### `inspector_label`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(plot, index, position) -> string` which replaces the default label generated by DataInspector.

### `strokewidth`

**Default:** `@inherit patchstrokewidth`

Sets the outline linewidth of bars.

### `transformation`

**Default:** `:automatic`

Controls the inheritance or directly sets the transformations of a plot. Transformations include the transform function and model matrix as generated by `translate!(...)`, `scale!(...)` and `rotate!(...)`. They can be set directly by passing a `Transformation()` object or inherited from the parent plot or scene. Inheritance options include:

  * `:automatic`: Inherit transformations if the parent and child `space` is compatible
  * `:inherit`: Inherit transformations
  * `:inherit_model`: Inherit only model transformations
  * `:inherit_transform_func`: Inherit only the transform function
  * `:nothing`: Inherit neither, fully disconnecting the child's transformations from the parent

Another option is to pass arguments to the `transform!()` function which then get applied to the plot. For example `transformation = (:xz, 1.0)` which rotates the `xy` plane to the `xz` plane and translates by `1.0`. For this inheritance defaults to `:automatic` but can also be set through e.g. `(:nothing, (:xz, 1.0))`.

### `depth_shift`

**Default:** `0.0`

Adjusts the depth value of a plot after all other transformations, i.e. in clip space, where `-1 <= depth <= 1`. This only applies to GLMakie and WGLMakie and can be used to adjust render order (like a tunable overdraw).

### `gap`

**Default:** `0.2`

The final width of the bars is calculated as `w * (1 - gap)` where `w` is the width of each bar as determined with the `width` attribute. When `dodge` is used the `w` corresponds to the width of undodged bars, making this control the gap between groups.

### `marker_pos`

**Default:** `:utriangle`

Marker used for bars corresponding to positive `y` values.

### `color_over_bar`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the color of labels that are drawn inside of/over bars. Defaults to `label_color`

### `show_direction`

**Default:** `false`

When true, markers are drawn to indicate the direction of the bar.

### `label_size`

**Default:** `@inherit fontsize`

The font size of the bar labels.

### `inspector_clear`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot) -> ...` for cleaning up custom indicators in DataInspector.

### `dodge`

**Default:** `automatic`

Dodge can be used to separate bars drawn at the same `position`. For this each bar is given an integer value corresponding to its position relative to the given `positions`. E.g. with `positions = [1, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2]` we have 3 bars at each position which can be separated by `dodge = [1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3]`.

### `visible`

**Default:** `true`

Controls whether the plot gets rendered or not.

### `colorscale`

**Default:** `identity`

The color transform function. Can be any function, but only works well together with `Colorbar` for `identity`, `log`, `log2`, `log10`, `sqrt`, `logit`, `Makie.pseudolog10`, `Makie.Symlog10`, `Makie.AsinhScale`, `Makie.SinhScale`, `Makie.LogScale`, `Makie.LuptonAsinhScale`, and `Makie.PowerScale`.

### `n_dodge`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the maximum integer for `dodge`. This sets how many bars can be placed at a given position, controlling their width.

### `marker_neg`

**Default:** `:dtriangle`

Marker used for bars corresponding to negative `y` values.

### `label_rotation`

**Default:** `0π`

Sets the text rotation of labels in radians.

### `overdraw`

**Default:** `false`

Controls if the plot will draw over other plots. This specifically means ignoring depth checks in GL backends

### `dodge_gap`

**Default:** `0.03`

Sets the gap between dodged bars relative to the size of the dodged bars.

### `color`

**Default:** `@inherit patchcolor`

Sets the color of bars.

### `flip_labels_at`

**Default:** `Inf`

Sets a `height` value beyond which labels are drawn inside the bar instead of outside.

### `lowclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value below the colorrange.

### `transparency`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts how the plot deals with transparency. In GLMakie `transparency = true` results in using Order Independent Transparency.

### `colormap`

**Default:** `@inherit colormap :viridis`

Sets the colormap that is sampled for numeric `color`s. `PlotUtils.cgrad(...)`, `Makie.Reverse(any_colormap)` can be used as well, or any symbol from ColorBrewer or PlotUtils. To see all available color gradients, you can call `Makie.available_gradients()`.

### `space`

**Default:** `:data`

Sets the transformation space for box encompassing the plot. See `Makie.spaces()` for possible inputs.

### `label_font`

**Default:** `@inherit font`

The font of the bar labels.

### `ssao`

**Default:** `false`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with ssao (screen space ambient occlusion). Note that this only makes sense in 3D plots and is only applicable with `fxaa = true`.

### `label_align`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the text alignment of labels.

### `cycle`

**Default:** `[:color => :patchcolor]`

Sets which attributes to cycle when creating multiple plots. The values to cycle through are defined by the parent Theme. Multiple cycled attributes can be set by passing a vector. Elements can

  * directly refer to a cycled attribute, e.g. `:color`
  * map a cycled attribute to a palette attribute, e.g. `:linecolor => :color`
  * map multiple cycled attributes to a palette attribute, e.g. `[:linecolor, :markercolor] => :color`

### `model`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a model matrix for the plot. This overrides adjustments made with `translate!`, `rotate!` and `scale!`.

### `final_gap`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the gap of final bars. This defaults to 0 without `dodge` and `gap` with.

### `fxaa`

**Default:** `true`

Adjusts whether the plot is rendered with fxaa (fast approximate anti-aliasing, GLMakie only). Note that some plots implement a better native anti-aliasing solution (scatter, text, lines). For them `fxaa = true` generally lowers quality. Plots that show smoothly interpolated data (e.g. image, surface) may also degrade in quality as `fxaa = true` can cause blurring.

### `width`

**Default:** `automatic`

The gapless width of the bars. If `automatic`, the width `w` is calculated as `minimum(diff(sort(unique(positions)))`. The actual width of the bars is calculated as `w * (1 - gap)`.

### `inspector_hover`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets a callback function `(inspector, plot, index) -> ...` which replaces the default `show_data` methods.

### `label_offset`

**Default:** `5`

The distance of the labels from the bar ends in screen units. Does not apply when `label_position = :center`.

### `highclip`

**Default:** `automatic`

The color for any value above the colorrange.

### `stack`

**Default:** `automatic`

Similar to `dodge`, this allows bars at the same `positions` to be stacked by identifying their stack position with integers. E.g. with `positions = [1, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2]` each group of 3 bars can be stacked with `stack = [1, 2, 3, 1, 2, 3]`.

### `label_position`

**Default:** `:end`

The position of each bar's label relative to the bar. Possible values are `:end` or `:center`.

### `label_color`

**Default:** `@inherit textcolor`

Sets the color of labels.

### `nan_color`

**Default:** `:transparent`

The color for NaN values.

### `label_formatter`

**Default:** `bar_label_formatter`

Formatting function which is applied to bar labels before they are passed on `text()`

### `direction_color`

**Default:** `@inherit backgroundcolor`

Color of the bar direction marker.

### `colorrange`

**Default:** `automatic`

The values representing the start and end points of `colormap`.

### `offset`

**Default:** `0.0`

Offsets all bars by the given real value. Can also be set per-bar.

### `show_final`

**Default:** `false`

When true a bar with the total change is drawn. When `dodge` is used this bar is drawn per group.

### `inspectable`

**Default:** `@inherit inspectable`

Sets whether this plot should be seen by `DataInspector`. The default depends on the theme of the parent scene.

### `color_over_background`

**Default:** `automatic`

Sets the color of labels that are drawn outside of bars. Defaults to `label_color`
